So this section it kinda give
you an introduction to binary.
What it actually is?
So binary is actually
a base 2 number system,
it also known as the binary number system.
So it's actually helpful
to fewest computer program.
I don't wanna understand the basics of
binary when you're actually writing some
programs and an example of that
would be when you're writing or
when you're reading and writing.
Binary data into a file, but
we'll actually keep these
section fairly short and simple.
If you're already understand binary and
hexidecimal and
if you're comfortable with that.
You might wanna actually skip this section
and move straight on to section 9.
Now, the other thing is if you actually
struggle to understand this section,
don't necessarily let it put
you off the rest of the course.
The thing to remember is that
although many high-level languages
allow binary manipulation and
other binary operations in your coding,
they're not actually necessary for
the vast majority of programming tasks.
So if you're happy to take at face value
and believe us when we say that for
example, the number 256
requires two bytes,
then you can actually continue
with the rest of the course,
moving on to the next section without
really having to understand this section.
With that said, though,
we both really suggest you give it a go.
And just works through in perhaps
even watched the video a few time
because having that knowledge of binary,
really sorts of help you understand
what's sort of happening under
the hood at the hardware level and
speaking of hardware it's actually.
Possible to create computer circuitry
that actually works in decimal.
In other words having ten different
voltage range to represent the ten digits
of decimal for example.
But it's much simpler and hence cheaper
To just deal in terms of on and off.
So that's low voltage or high voltage.
And for that reason,
computers nowadays always work in binary.
And I'm gonna swap over, now,
to a page in my browser.
And just showing you the link up
there in the top left hand corner.
I've sized him up so
you can see it a little bit better.
And this is actually a video.
It's a little short video.
I would suggest that you actually
take the It's time to watch it.
Now it's a computer that worked in
decimal, rather than binary and
created initially in 1951 and
it has been restored.
It is now fully operational at
the National Museum of Computing
which is at Bletchley Park on the UK.
So I suggest you just take like
a few minutes to watch and
sort to see a different thing working
like a computer with decimal,
unlike all the modern day
computers which are in binary.
So that's it,
I'm gonna finish the video here.
In the next video we're gonna go ahead and
start having a look
at how to perform arithmetic using
only the digits zero and one.
So I'll see you in that next video.